---
layout: post
title: New Blog
tags: [Allar]
---

This is the first post of this blog. Whoo. Exciting. I'm willing to bet the overwhelming majority of blogs only contain one post about starting a blog though. This blog could end up that way, too.

-----

## Why a new blog?

I decided to reboot my old blog because it was getting rather unwieldy. I maintained my original blog for about four years and I have accumulated a ton of original tutorials I made in regards to Unreal Engine 3, UnrealScript, and Scaleform but unfortunately they are very much outdated now.

### WordPress can get unmanageable

Instead of recycling the blog and appending new things to it to keep its fantastic SEO intact, I felt that the performance and stability of a static site using Jekyll far outweigh the small conveniences of a WordPress driven website. With WordPress, every post that was image heavy or incorporated oddly sized elements that if not done in a particular would catastrophically break the theme of the site. Just the thought of doing a theme or layout switch gave way to some high-octane nightmare fuel. My thought behind this blog is some form of "lean and efficient", however I know I'll screw that up too.

In the past I also held all my tutorials to some sort of quality standard that now looking back on seems pointless as while my writing and presentation skills have improved they are still quite atrocious. Instead of doing full several post long write-ups about how to develop complex systems, I plan to take a more "cookbook" or "bite-sized" approach with informative but smaller posts which may or may not include some stream of consciousness or high levels of profanity.

### Still worth it

The effort I put into my original blog was worth it and did help with getting to where I'm at now and I don't regret it at all. I just no longer can justify taking the time to create tutorials for every one of all skills, origins, and sensitivities meaning that most of the content on this website will most likely be very unhelpful at best and throughly insulting at worst.

-----

Could be a fun ride though. Or as initially stated, this could already be the end.